A. Things one can do with equipment:

A1. View the item in the environment.
  A1.1 Process:
    A1.1.1 Item is a SOB just like any other in the world and is displayed via its 3D view.
A2. Pick up the item.
  A2.1 Process:
    A2.1.1 Item disappears from world view (basically unspawn).
    A2.1.2 Item is registered with SOB inventory.
    A2.1.3 Item might be displayed as part of the SOB. Translated with SOB.
A3. View the item in your own inventory.
  A3.1 Process:
    A3.1.1 Display the list of items in the inventory that can fit the screen.
    A3.1.2 Display per item includes a texture on a quad. *
    A3.1.3 Display per item includes stats and name. *
A4. View the item in a trade window.
  A4.1 Process:
    A4.1.1 Display SOB inventory (see 3) .
    A4.1.2 Display the items that the SOB has chosen for the trade.*
    A4.1.3 Display the items that the trader has chosen for the trade.
A5. View the stats of the item.
  A5.1 Process:
    A5.1.1 Display a standalone view of the item model.
    A5.1.2 Display the stats of the item.*
A6. Equip the item.
  A6.1 Process:
    A6.1.1 Previous item (if any) is unequipped.
    A6.1.2 Previous mesh might be hidden.
    A6.1.3 Item is displayed as part of the SOB. Translated with the SOB.*
    A6.1.4 Item is hooked up to SOB properties.
A7. Unequip the item.
  A7.1 Process:
    A7.1.1 Hide the item mesh.
    A7.1.2 Default mesh is shown for the SOB.*
    A7.1.3 Item goes back into inventory.
    A7.1.4 Item might be displayed as a part of the SOB. Translated with the SOB.
A8. Drop the item.
  A8.1 Process:
    A8.1.1 Item is removed from the SOB inventory.
    A8.1.2 Item may be unequipped.
    A8.1.3 Meshes displayed may be hidden.
    A8.1.4 Item reappears in the world. (Basically spawn).
A9. Store the item in a container.
  A9.1 Process:
    A9.1.1 Item is removed from the SOB inventory.
    A9.1.2 Item may be unequipped.
    A9.1.3 Meshes displayed may be hidden.
    A9.1.4 Item added to container SOB inventory (A2).
A10. View items in a container.
  A10.1 Process:
    A10.1.1 Similar to inventory view (A3).
A11. Use Item on a SOB
  A11.1 Process:
    A11.1.1 Item is selected and then target to SOB
    A11.1.2 SOB and/or Item would be modified, combined, destroyed (unspawn) or remain unmodified
    A11.1.3 SOB and/or Item are redrawn or removed from the screen


B. Different kinds on equipment:

B1. Clothing
  B1.A1 Clothing looks like a bundle (folded or otherwise) when in the environment.
    Might have several models depending on where the clothing is (shirt on a shelf or shirt over the back rest of a chair).
  B1.A3 The model displayed in the inventory is a quad with a billboard that features the model that is used for normal display
    (average body build) when equipped. Stats may include wear-and-tear info, armor rating, weight.*
  B1.A5 Stats displayed are enchantments, wear-and-tear info, armor rating, durability, resistance to elements, name, weight.
    The model displayed is the model that is used for normal display when equipped.
B2. Weapons
  B2.A1 Weapons usually look the same everywhere. Except for weapons that have a belt for example without dynamics -
    then there are different belt configurations based on if it is just on a shelf or hanging on a wall or something.?
B3. Jewelry
  B3.A1 Jewelry is similar to B2.A1 in that things like chains etc. can have different configurations when not controlled by dynamics.
B4. Tools
  B4.A1 Similar to B2.A1.
B5. Ingredients for potions and food.
B6. Materials for crafting and building.


Sensory Actions
	Examine
		Examine Closely (stat view etc.)
	Taste
	Listen
	Feel
	Smell

Physical Action
	Hands
		smash
		punch
		slap
		Squeeze
		Twist
		throw
	Feet
		kick
		stomp
	Head
		headbutt
	Wield (fungus) / Worn
		In Use / Not in Use
	Pull
	Push
	Drop
	Pick up
	Use items on each other
	Rip/Tear
	wind
	destroy
	
	Test Objects:
		Apple
		Spear
		
Equipment slots vs Attachment points

In use / not in use - UCs
	Sword
		IU  - in hand, lowered.
		NIU - no room in inventory: in hand, lowered.
		      room in inventory   : put away.
	Chainmail shirt
		IU  - wear it, get armor bonuses.
		NIU - no room in inventory: in hand.
		      room in inventory   : put away.

Characters and Items Slots - Each SOB has an equipment socket..  Items which have equipment plugs may "plug" into those sockets.  The properties on the equipment plugs dictate what kinds of socket they can plug in to. Socket types and names are standardized.
Sockets can be hierarchical - so you might have body -> upper body -> right arm -> right palm -> right index finger. If something is plugged into a socket, then nothing can be plugged into the child or ancestor sockets without unplugging it first. So when wearing a robe you could not equip a shirt without removing the robe first. On the other hand if wearing a shirt and trousers you would have to unequip those before equipping a robe.
		
DEMO use cases
	Picking up the spear would put it in the hand since it does not fit anywhere else. If the hands are full and the thing(s) in one of the hands can not be put in the inventory, then the spear can not be picked up.
	Picking up an apple would put it in the inventory (pockets) which holds a very limited amount of apples. Once inventory is full the newly picked up apples would show up in the hands..which of course get full pretty fast.