Notes on the Laurelin Bridge.
1) Who built it?
   1.1 Gaea designed the bridge.  Agents of Gaea from the south (hardcore worshippers), who are expert bridge builders carried out the designs (got a vision from Gaea, woke up saying "I got to build this bridge!") with help from manual labor inside the village (maybe they brought in some northmen laborers as well, since the population of Laurelin was never that large).
2) When was it built exactly?
    2.1 20 years after the first curse.
3) Has any further work been done on it later?
    3.1 Defensive modifications done during the age of the kings - arrow slits (one can go inside the bridge), torch etc.
    3.2 Modifications were made during the end of the time of the kings - sitting area was made nicer for tourism purposes.
    3.3 Added ornamentation to make it look a bit more Nordic after the time of the kings.  Nordic claimed they built it "helped" by southern slaves.
    3.4 Outer pillars have statues with famous people.  The king who is the guy who paved the streets of Laurelin.
4) What was the purpose of the bridge (other than providing a way across the river obviously)?
    4.1 The main purpose was to contain the essence of the vargfolk that escaped during the collapse of the first bridge in the form of a small rocky (orichalculum) outcropping. The middle pillar was built on the top of the outcropping. Hermit Mage + Silverfang = vargfolk got more powerful.
5) Does the style of the bridge differ from the rest of the village (other than being made out of stone)? Do we want it to stick out (more so than a massive stone bridge :P)? If so - what other structures/cultures follow the same style?
    5.1 Yes the bridge has a different style. A mix southern style (elven - with the medium of stone, which they were not used to), celtic, nordic/laurelin style.
    5.2 The sanctuary has the same style. A bit more nordic tho. Built by a small group of the southeners that stayed behind.
    5.3 The fountain in town square is similar to the one on the bridge.
6) Does the bridge have any visible signs of magic?
    6.1 It does not deteriorate and resists the effects of nature.
    6.2 Magic (blue or some other tinted color) flame on the fountain sometimes.
7) What significant events have happened on/around the bridge?
    7.1 Recent earthquake, how did it affect the bridge?
    7.2 An attack on the village damaged the bridge near the end of the time of the kings.
    7.3 There is a festival every year to commemorate the events of the first curse.  At the beginning this was an informal but was later expanded for tourists.
    7.4 Underneath the thin stone layer on the surface of the bridge there is an occult symbol (pattern, circle), it means closing/closure or smth like that, in it's corners there are holes which go unnoticed by most ppl. If one sheds blood in every corner the symbol and the holes become visible and fixed.
    7.5 Worshippers who follow gaea have a yearly event in the middle of the bridge where they shed their own blood during a secret night ceremony.  This ceremony is performed yearly.  If the ceremony isn't performed every fifth year, then the bridge begins to decay rapidly.  If the ceremony is performed soon after the decay begins, then everything is fine.  Otherwise the bridge decays rapidly and it will collapse (time catches up to it).
8) Is there a plan for the bridge?
    8.1 A possible place for the statues of the Heroes of Laurelin.
    8.2 The vargfolk can be freed (or helped a long way towards that goal anyway) by destroying the bridge.
9) How big is it exactly?
    9.1 width: two wagons can pass each other and enough room is left to the sides for people.
    9.2 height: statues or other decorative elements can reach several floors high.  The bridge itself is about 8-9m from the water's surface.
    9.3 length: a bit longer than the width of the river obviously. About 40m maybe...
10) Can ships pass under the bridge? If so - how large ships?
    10.1 No.
11) Can boats pass under the bridge?
    11.1 Small rowing boats only. Mostly tourism boats.
12) Does it have a defensive purpose of some kind? If so - what is it?
    12.1 Blocking the way upstream.
    12.2 Arrow slits on the harbor side. Hidden in the ornamentation. Entry into the bridge from under the bridge - small arcs.
    12.3 Torch at the top of the fountain.
    12.4 There is a force field on both sides of the bridge.  Only people who have been "identified" by the Gaea worshipper(s) aka gate keeper are allowed through the gates.  You can get through if you haven't been identified if you are with someone who has been identified. You can get banned later too (both from getting in and/or going out)
13) What were the tourist attractions on/around the bridge?
    13.1 Sitting/entertainment area in the center (by the middle pillar, has stairs all around it).
    13.2 Plaque (probably by one of the wolf-statues, a big metal board which has made-up story about bridge's history written on it, a heroic tale).
    13.3 Statues.
    13.4 Boat tours.
    13.5 Walkways on the riverbanks.
14) Are there other bridges?
    14.1 Yes at least one - up stream near the watermill.
15) Does the bridge have any writings? Date?
    15.1 Writings made when the bridge was created - honours the people who died in the curse and Gaea. The date of the curse is listed in this text.
    15.2 Writings added later to make it look nordic. Who created it etc. Engraved.
    15.3 The plaque on the side (folk tale, iron truth :P).
    15.4 Southeners left some messages behind - including incantations to keep the vargfolk contained. Inside the bridge probably, on the pillar. It contains a little engraving with the name of the real builder of the bridge (a southener), real date and probably a dedication or warning regarding the pillar (short one, norsemen can't read it).
16) Does the river freeze during winter?
    16.1 Yes. On very cold winters. Otherwise it is too fast flowing to freeze.  Freezes in blocks, only extremely rarely does the river freeze solid.
17) Do the ends of the bridge symbolize different things?
    17.1 Yes. One is the side they abandoned and has more of an offensive meaning. The other side is more protective. The different wolf statues at the ends symbolize these things.
18) Do the sides of the bridge symbolize different things?
    18.1 No.

The different ends of the bridge grant people powers associated with the meaning of that end. People who drink/use the small drinking pools at the feet of the statues, get the effects mentioned.