Berrin
=======

General Info
=============
Approximately in his late 30's-early 40's
Has 1/2 southerner blood and was a bastard's son.
A seer who is also a scribe (lore master)
two children
wife died a while ago

History
========
The founder of Laurelin (2770 years ago) was one of Berrin's forefathers.  The founder lived another 250 years and then he died.  He managed to keep changing his identity with his illusionary power  He was about 250 years when he arrived in Larelin.  This person was an archmage (who ceased being one in Laurelin, seceded from the guild) with tremendous power who kept the Guild at bay for approximately 250 years.  After that time Berrin's forefathers struck a deal with the mage's guild.  Any orichcaluclum taken from the valley, his family gets a small percentage of the gross selling price.  Berrin and his forefathers were never part of the seers guild (cept for the archmage obviously).

Most of the seers in Berrin's family were scribes (although there were exceptions). All in Berrin's family are seers (the blood gets mixed and weaker of course, when they marry outside the family), but it's up to every individual if he/she wants to practice the seer skills or lets them lay dormant.

His father, innkeeper, sent him away to live with his grandfather when he was about 7 years old since Berrin was the product of his father's affair.  His father felt alot of regret about this of course, and he gave Berrin a special earring which had a unique amber stone.  The amber had an exotic, cool looking bug trapped in it. The bug was very rare in the first place and wasn't native to Laurelin.  His father asked him to always wear it as he would always be thinking about him.  

Berrin was cruelly mistreated by his grandfather who viewed him as a 1/2 breed.  He was terribly homesick and began to scheme how he would get enough money to buy passage home.  Berrin responded to this mistreatment by smart mouthing his grandfather but his grandfather beat him into silent submission.  Berrin didn't talk much during the last year with his grandfather.  He turned inward and began having all kinds of little fantasies and telling himself tales to amuse himself, since he had no other entertainment and no other friends.   His grandfather did teach him the Seers magic, but in a very cruel way, beating him if he made a mistake.  The grandfather only wanted the boy to have enough knowledge so he wouldn't kill himself or others around him.  The grandfather also gave him misinformation to try and impede the boy's progress in the magic, so he would use it less.  The grandfather considered the boy's magic tainted with the southern blood that ran within him. Namely, Berrin has a darker skin. A bit like southeners, who live in the Sanctuary and some miners too, the city outside the valley has of course a mix of races and nations living in it.

One day, the grandfather took the grandson into town and went to have some drinks.  The boy waited outside the bar for his grandfather to come out.  His grandfather was mugged inside the tavern (a surprise attack and was killed). The boy of 9 waited outside the bar for several days but his grandfather just never came out.  He evenutally moved on and became a street kid for a few weeks, stealing to survive.  He met a few other street kids and some older misfortunate beggars. Seeing these people who were honest and at one time hard working folk gave Berrin a soft spot for the poor and mistreated. He saw the poor savagely mistreated and perhaps someone was starving and even got beaten very close to death when they tried to steal some food just to survive.

After a few weeks he decided that he couldn't continue the way he was going.  He might end up like the old man who tried to steal food to survive and was beaten horribly.  He decided he would become a sailor and spent 4 years on various seal hunting vessels, slowly gaining competence as a seaman.  It is out on the killing fields where he learned to become skillful with a knife.  He had a natural ability with the knife, which is something he was very proud of.  It was the first thing he ever excelled at and was praised for.  He gained the trust and the respect of the crew as a worthy and sturdy young lad who didn't flinch from hardship or pain.  This respect caused him to begin to open up and begin to trust again.  Berrin became more and more outgoing, until by the time he was fifteen he was considered as outgoing and precotious by his shipmates.

When he turned 13 he got on to a whaling vessel.  He spent a year and a half on the whaling vessel where he began to discover his powers.  Eventually he did something that saved the whaling vessel.  The crew and the captain were boasting loudly about Berrin in a tavern and what he had done to save the ship.  The captain of a large merchant vessel overheard this and bought Berrin from the whaler captain at a high price.  Berrin was 15 at the time.

He spent about two years on the merchant vessel and became close friends with the captain since he was such a valuable companion (he could help the ship out in a number of ways with his newly discovered powers).  This is when he began to study seers magic seriously and started to become a scribe.  He accompanied the captain on negotiating outings since he was shrewd in business.  Frequently he would be a part of large merchant fleets.  He usually sailed on the pearl of the fleet and had a really great friend.  The mage's guild asked him to join the guild.  He saw how the guild took advantage of the merchants so he rudely refused them.  The mage's guild did not forget this insult.

When he was 17 the mage's guild paid some pirates to come after the ship he was aboard when they were deep in southern waters.All hands were lost except for Berrin and one of his best friends on board.  They found their way on to land and wandered around for a few months and had quite a few adventures with his friend.  Eventually they wander into the land of the southerns whom they were trespassing against.  His friend is killed and he is nearly killed (17.5).  At the last moment he was saved by a priestess who sensed Berrin's magic.  The priestess was given a deadline of 6 months to prove that he is a southerner.  After he learns the magic and passes the tests he stays with the priestess for 4 years and learns their magic.  He also shows them the vargfolk magic.

HE is eventually sent as a spy to a small seer outpost.  He poses as an important seer from Gormsby who is visiting this backwater outpost.  He moves from outpost to outpost trying to find out information about what the seers are planning. Eventually a real representative from the guild starts visiting and assumes/is convinced that Berrin really belongs to the mage's guild and is in charge of these outlying outposts.  He thinks that Berrin is doing a great job and gives Berrin a "promotion".  Due to a "clerical oversight" Berrin didn't appear in archives as a member of the seers.  This "error" was quickly corrected and Berrin was even given a "promotion".

He was then sent to oversee an important trading port for the Seers.  Here he was given a lot of responsiblity.  He was able to do an even better job spying for the Southerns in his new place of prominence.  Since he was at the hub of all the most impotant trade that went on throughout the empire, he heard that the innkeeper in Laurelin was deathly ill.  Berrin arranged for himself to be on a ship bound for Laurelin.  He would be the escort for this very important and rare visit to the island.  Berrin made sure the vessel crashed very close to Laurelin, "unfortunately" all hands on board were lost except for himself.
  
He arrived on the island with some story he concoted about how he paid passage to the Celtic lands and with the help of another powerful seer, he was able to teleport back to Laurelin.  He said that he came back because of the death of his father and brother.  

His father and brother were killed in a fire about 25 years ago (BT).  The fire was actually an assasination carried out by the Clerics.  Berrin's father and brother found out about the guardians and told the cleric on the island that the mining had to stop (in not so polite terms).  The clerics took this threat to heart and had Berrin's father and his brother killed.

When Berrin came back, people did not believe that he was who he said he was.  Berrin still had the earring and showed it to them.  This satisfied most of the old timers in town, but not all.  They said that he might've stolen it from the real Berrin and that he just wanted to settle in Laurelin.  Berrin then showed them his childhood scar and everyone was convinced that it was the real Berrin.

There have always been a couple of the toughest and most powerful reprecentatives of the mage's guild. When Berrin returns to Laurelin he reveals his real identity to the guild. But the public still doesn't know that he is a seer.

Berrin has aquired Silverfang from a hero (paladin) of the last wars.  The paladin used the dagger to do many great deeds.  Over time he sensed the evil in the dagger and the dagger began to creep into his mind and tear it apart / take control.  The paladin got to the stables of Laureline before dying...  The dagger reached Berrin but he didn't receive the part of the message from the paladin to destroy the dagger.

He carries the dagger always with him. He is a seer after all. Seers are in communication with the vargfolk all the time, they don't go crazy like the paladin. Meaning, they aren't affected by the Silverfang as badly as normal ppl. Berrin has also double protection (double defence/mental block) because southerner's blood runs in his veins too and those worship Gaea. 

Berring has ties with the secret werewolf society and knows what they once were (villagers).  

[TODO] Berrin did something good for the villagers when he returned.  This regained the villager's trust quickly.  What was it he did?

SOME ADDITIONAL NOTES.
The culture of sailors.
Berrin has a bunch of tattoos on his left forearm.
On every ship sailor gets a tattoo which contains ship's name, the period spent on the ship, position, capten's assessment. When he is a survivor of a shipwreck then instead of capten's assessment there are skull and bones (generally a good thing, unless you have too many of those). 
A very small font. The name of the ship is in runes, the rest is in special code which only the office knows and comprehends fully. Very special certified ink -- there are special offices (seers) that make those tatoos, read/decipher and verify/validate/attest them. Ship-captens can read a bit of this writing. Pirates are a bit better at it. The military captens' skill of reading this writing is equal to the ones of the office, it's important for them. 
It's a nordic tradition which is being followed also by those who wish to serve on some nordic ship. 
On most of Berrin's tattoos there is written that he was the mage of the ship, that's why he is hiding them. Also, high society doesn't usually look well upon someone being a sailor. 





