This document will eventually be merged into the encyclopedia.

The gods are just fiction made up by the seers so the norsemen are easier to control.  It is a means of control and some times just a way for the seers to explain stuff that they don't know about so the norsemen will listen to them.  Each god has their own area which they're in charge of and no god is greater than any other.  They all are responsible for maintaining the balance of the world / universe.  Generally the gods are thought to be all powerful in their realm of influence and certainly cannot be killed.  If something goes wrong (like a drought or an earthquake for instance) the vikings think that they have done something to displease the gods or someone did something which directly messed something up (like a traitor in a war / battle for instance).  There are times when the gods are in conflict or asleep at the wheel but these times are exceedingly rare and exceptionally violent. 

Mythos:

God of the Sea - Has complete control of the seas and the tides.  He owns a beast which is in charge of the winds.  Sometimes this beast will get out of hand and create too strong of a wind.  When this happens there is a confrontation and the God of the Sea puts his beast back in its place (there is a lot of commotion [high waves] on the surface of the water at this time..  The god of Chaos shows up sometimes bc a good fight is always chaotic (hence why you see thunder and heavy rains often during times of high seas). So, everything that has to do with sailing (including probably the sky - stars, sun etc) is probably connected to this god.

God of Chaos - He is a wildcard and there is no knowing what he'll do next.  He governs the rain and fire and uses those powers to play tricks on the other gods from time to time.  He'll create volcanoes out of mountains for example.

Goddess of Fertility - She has dominion over women's fertility and the fertility of the soil. She is the mother earth, the nature goddess. She is the wife of the God of Stone and has had many children with him. She probably gave herbalists their magical abilities and herbalists worship her in some form.

God of Stone - In charge of basically stone and all things derived from the stone (minerals and such).  He can raise mountains or lower them to valleys.  Sometimes when he works or the god of Chaos has angered him earthquakes are the result. Smiths and other crafters worship him.

God of War - Powerful and mighty he is in charge or warfare and all things related to war.  He is the most physically powerful of the gods (except save the god of stone). He is probably also god of order or something, often in opposition with the God Of Chaos. There are times when these 2 work together too, of course ;).


