Celestial Clerics
======

General Information
Celestial Clerics are those Clerics which are a part of "The Guild".  Most people just refer to them as, "Clerics", since most Clerics are particularly "Celestial Clerics".  Celestial Clerics are followers of the "One True Faith", which refers to the pantheon of Norse Gods.  Most of the Clerics know that this pantheon is really just a simplification of the complexity and mystery of their true religion.  Although they don't know exactly what "The gods" really are, they do know that the gods give them their powers, are inifinitely wise, their minds are infinitely vast and their potential is unexplorable by the feeble human mind.  Tapping the power of the gods is something not to be done litely, as too much of the god's power will kill a human.  A human being's mind, body and spirit are so insignificant, when when compared to the vastness and power of the gods.  A human can very easily die from trying to channel too much of the god's power, or doing it too often.


History
The seers started out as worshippers who came to the island of Laurelin, scoffing at the local legends which said that demons inhabited those lands.  They had heard other strange tales of these so-called demon's great power.  From time to time

During the dragon wars the seers split ainto two camps.  One group who created an army and openly proclaimed themselves to battle the dragons.  This is the beginning of the Mage's Guild. The other group fled and hid their power from the world and their descendants.

The group who went into hiding is called rougues. Getting a child with non-seer the magical abilities of the descendant halve, by now the magical abilities of most rougues are very low. But when 2 from seer bloodline get a child (whose parents probably don't even know that seer abilities run in their blood), then that child may discover his/her abilities. Although most won't guess that they are seers like the ones in guild, some do and they have been accepted into the guild. They can't get a high poistion in the guild though, in the guild there is inbreeding.

Berrin's family joined the rougues later. They have a stronger seer bloodline bc of that. And also they are brought up as seers, told about their seer blood and abilities.  

The group that was able to band together to form an army and later became the Mage's Guild moved far North, where it is very cold and inhospitable.  They reasoned that not very many people would want o invade such a forbidding land and they could continue their studies on how to free the vargfolk.  Also, dragons don't like the cold very much since it is uncomfortable and it makes them sleepy. :)

Political Influence
They are highly influential although they only serve themselves and try to manipulate the world to their own ends (and hence the vargfolk).  They are generally feared by the populace since they can be anyone or be anywhere and they watch people in secret.  Individual members could be liked, but as a whole the organization is feared.  Seers who aren't in the guild are offered membership, but if that membership is refused it is very much frowned upon and maybe even make them an enemy of the guild.  They frequently hire herbalists (high level herbalists, best in the world, only in very rare and catastrophic circumstantces does the archmage do healing) who will help people out and generally the guild will try to help boost public opinion of them.  They also fund several charities and do public service stuff that helps the general public.  All these good deeds are really only about public opinion.  There is an elite group of healers who work full time for the Guild.  They generally have very extensive healing powers which would appear miraculous to others outside the guild.

The Guild
Hierachical in nature.  There is a council which decides most matters and an archmage who is the dictator of the organization.  His word is law.
Religion - They peddle the same religion as their forefathers.  If you don't believe in their religion then you can still be a member of the guild but you will remain at a very low level and won't really be trusted.  They generally try to bring in converts by saying that whatever their religion is also a god(s) in their religion.


Political
Police Force (a powerful security force; very big, peace keepers)
	Shadow Cleric - spooky elite police force, geschtapo type characters, emotionless killers.  these are seers who are ulfhedin too but they don't have any of the disadvantages of the ulfhedin (i.e.)  Emotionless killers.  These people are trained killers and are completely loyal to the archmage and the council.  They are very scary folks who show up to cart people off in the middle of the night for who knows what. Engineered, trained since childhood, born as one basically.

The Brotherhood - Mage's Guild has a division of assassins, some are their own members, but most are contracted from The Brotherhood. So, The Brotherhood and Mage's Guild have very strong relations. Guild understands and knows very well what they are, what the ppl in the brotherhood really are. Brotherhood itself doesn't, they only know what they've been told and they've been told that they serve the same gods as the guild (wolfgod, who is one of many the guild "worships"). Oh, and even inside the guild nobody escept the archmage and a couple of other guys don't know who's from the Brotherhood and who not.

The mages guild have had control of the Vikings for thousands of years after the 
Over time the Guild has become increasingly a shadow organizations

Socio-Economic Control
This is based on their religion that they push.  They enforce the mysic of their religion with their magic.  If you don't believe, then something bad will happen to you bc the gods will be angry.  Then the guild makes sure something bad happens, although no one ever suspects that the guild is behind it.
	Agriculture - farmers have to pay a certain amount of money to the Guild as tribute to the gods.  When there is any trouble with the weather the seers can help out.
	Trading / Shipping - it started out that you must carry a seer on every voyage to have good wind and good weather.  Today, only the larger trading companies have seers on the merchant vessels.
	

War Machine
	Ulfhedin


Social Order
The guild serves the purpose of the vargfolk, but only the council knows this fact.  Even the council and archmage don't know the exact nature of the vargfolk.  Generally the higher up you get in your skill tree


Abilities
MAgic - quick spells kinda like a martial arts chi thing
Telekenisis
	moving particles (create force fields etc.)
		move small items a short distance = limited to sight.  size the most limiting factor on this power.  can move an object when 
you're nowhere near it
		brief force fields - duration, area of effect, strength is skill based (but not very limited)

Telepathy
	Influence NPCs animals and monsters - get better deals charm the opposite sex. they can talk to wolves the best
	Player 2 Player - you get the other person's radar
	p2p events - a charm that can be put on someone, when you estimates an item you would estimate it lower than what it really is (you cheat yourself)
	

Teleportation
	Have to have been where they are going (vargfolk they didn't have this limitation)
	Distance limited (this increases) 1000km max
	Time to create portal - creating one quicker expends more energy
	teleport yourself first and then other objects - restricted by mass

Energy control
	Seers can't do this

Near Immortality
	Extended lifespan depending on skill (1000 years max) only for specific trees
	Can grant extended life (rare magical ingredients) the player who wants longer life must get the ingredients (prolonging the like of others)
	Ressurection - a very high level skill (maybe just for the archmage) need the help of high level scribes..  need a special room too.  the ceremony takes a week real time

Shapeshifting
	No. Gameplay reasons

Extreme Physical Power
	Can create ulfhedin - a horrible cost to the ulfhedin they have to get uncast within a certain period of time or else they'll die
	Generally for other people

elemental control
	this is their major proficiencies
	fire, water, air and some weather control (dangerous)

Total Control over light and Energy
	Some control over light (a flash of light and that's about it)

Possession
	Elementals
	Possession of one non-living item at a time
	Sea serpents at very high levels of the skill.

Illusion
	Cloak their scent from werewolves
	Invisibility - based on quests which require it, which furthers the vargfolk's goals
	Confusion - dizziness, multiple targets
	Mirror Copy
	Hiding abilities / stats / health, etc.

Enchantment
	Charm
	Enchant other objects (weapons, and tools of craftsmen)
	orichalculum weapons creation

Summoning
	Vargfolk Spirit - only for high level seers and only at the whim of the Vargfolks (GMs).  This would be a physical manifestation (Star Wars) and the vargfolk may even be able to act upon the physical world.  At the beginning you would have to be in the valley to summon a vargfolk.  You essentially need to be near quite a bit of orichcalculum.
	Angels of Death - GM controlled thing.
	Items not of this realm - weapons, magical enhancements


Time Control
	None.

Farsight
	Caster can see things from an arbitrary place.  This is an high level skill.  Distance limited.  Rare Ingredients which are only located in a specific place.



Technology based items
Nanites do most minor repairs on items.  Engineers who can read some of the vargfolk's language can give orders on the console to the nanite to effect repairs

Dimension compression containers
	You have to know what you put in there and where you put it.  You might not be able to get the item you want if you have more than one thing in the item.  The higher the number of objects you have the more difficult it is to get things out.

Flying Machines
	Antigravity engines - fast and maneuverable ) hover, etc.  Main ship would be near Gormsby.
	Personal Anti-gravity units - to help carry stuff around

Ships
	Water tight
	Durable - self repairing
	Flexible / Stronger
	Faster than other ships - up to 20-25 knots (nanites help here by making the surface very smooth and arranging themselves in a way that is conducive to speed)
	Navigation System - keeps you from running into land and allows you to set waypoints on a holographic map (this hasn't been discovered yet)

Archival Technology - Sensory storage system is aboard the main ship of the seers.  A few recorders.  The scribes keep these archives.

K0 Based Power devices (energy that is being drawn from the surrounding elements, for example air, the form of atomic power) - there are more of these laying around than the other vargfolk technology based items.  there are quite a few of these laying around

Scribes - these are the keepers of the library.  They are responsible for all research and for keeping any seer run libraries in order and for judging who will get what new spells if they ask for them.  these people are very dovoted, almost single minded to figureing out the mysteries of the vargfolk.  It takes all of their time and concentration to understand even a small part of the wonders of the vargfolk.


TODO.

NAMES need:
guild
archmage
council
councillor
spy
peacekeeper
healer (herbalists, not seers, the closest thing you can get to a public hospital; always in the forefront when it's war, infirmary; the healing ability of seers isn't that much known to ppl)
craftsman
engineer
oracle
loremaster
enchanter
normal person under guild protection
infra person
messenger
scout
